>> Kadi Kraman: Now, let's look at the
different types of navigation you can do.
The basic type of navigation
is a stack navigate.
By default,
everything's rendered in a stack.
And it means that when you navigate onto
a new screen, It renders on top of the old
screen, and then the new screen renders on
top of the old screen, so we have a stack.
So when you go back,
it will go back to the previous screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's
add a couple new files.
So let's add a counter.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
I'm gonna copy this file,
because it's just gonna be a default
layout where we have a view and
a text just as a placeholder,
so I'm not gonna type it out.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go, and
let's also add this placeholder screen,
so idea.tsx.
>> Kadi Kraman: So let's do IdeaScreen.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this will be the screen
for whatever you would like to build.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now,
there's three main ways to
navigate between screens with explorator.
The default one is using
this link component.
Just make sure we run.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah,
default one is using this link component.
So we can import link from experimenter,
and inside here,
you can just write some text actually.
So you can say, Go to counter.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this, you need to give
it an href of where you want to link to.
So let's say we want to link to counter,
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
Let me just give it some style.
So textAlign center,
>> Kadi Kraman: And marginBottom: 18 and
fontSize 24.
>> Kadi Kraman: This style
isn't that important,
I'm just doing it so it will be
a bit easier to see on the screen.
All right, so now, when I click on this,
you can see that it
navigates another screen on top
of my shopping list screen.
And you can use gestures,
actually, to go back.
So, specially when you're
doing this on your phone,
you can see you can swipe from the side.
Actually, the fun thing about this
is if you're on an Android phone,
it looks a little bit different.
Yeah, so on Android, that's another
thing that I didn't mention.
So the header actually looks slightly
different on Android as well as on iOS as
well, and that's because by default
you get platform specific styling.
So we have a slightly different shadow
here, so it's using an elevation and
the heading is aligned left.
And this is not a mistake or a bug or
anything, this is intentional because
it looks more natural to the platform.
But you can customize it and you can
make both of your apps look the same.
Anyway, so if you go on Android,
I can't actually see it
that much on this emulator.
But on a physical device,
you get a different animation
when you navigate back.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so the other
way to navigate is programmatically.
So let me add a text here and
say, Go to idea, and
then let's wrap this
in a TouchableOpacity.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
I'm just gonna copy these same styles.
>> Kadi Kraman: Text, there you go.
All right, so now we have Go to counter,
and then we have Go to idea, lovely.
So here, you can use an onPress.
So router has a use router hook, so
you can do a const router = useRouter.
So this will be an export from explorator.
And you can do onPress,
you can do router.,
and you can see all
the different things you can do.
So mostly, you would do router navigate,
push or replace.
So the difference between
them is that push will
always push a screen on top of the stack.
So replace will obviously replace the
screen, that's a little bit more obvious.
But then navigate will navigate to
the screen, but it might navigate back.
So for example, if I had my index screen,
my idea screen, and my counter screen,
and then I did router navigate idea,
it would actually go back in the stack,
because an idea screen
already exists in the stack.
But if you want to guarantee that
you're always going forward,
so adding another screen on top
of the stack, you would use push.
So in this case let's use navigate and
we want to go to our ideas screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: So open that and
then we will navigate to idea.
And then the third way to navigate is
using these navigation buttons that get
added with React navigation.
So you can see, by default,
we actually get these header buttons,
so I can go back all the way up and
down the stack.
That rhymed unintentionally.